.. _earning-spending:

====================
Earning and Spending
====================

Dash is designed from the ground up to function as digital cash. This
documentation discusses how and where Dash users can manage all of their
personal finances using Dash.

Earning
=======

A range of services and businesses are available to convert your wage to
and from Dash as you receive it.

- Uphold
- Bitwage

Spending
========

Merchant Directory
------------------

Dash can be spent in hundreds of stores and services both online and in
physical locations.

.. image:: img/discover-dash.png
   :width: 100%
   :target: https://discoverdash.com

**Discover Dash** lists businesses around the world accepting Dash,
sorted by category. It's easy to add your business to the list, and also
features a short introduction for new Dash users. The site is maintained
by Dash Force, and has been `featured on Dash Force News
<https://www.dashforcenews.com/300-businesses-accept-dash-worldwide-
come-blockcypher-grants>`_.

- `Discover Dash <https://discoverdash.com>`_
- `Dash Merchants <https://www.dash.org/merchants>`_

Debit Cards
-----------

Debit cards work by prepaying in Dash to load the account, then
withdrawing cash from an ATM or spending online or anywhere debit/credit
cards are supported. The Dash is either exchanged at the time of
purchase or in advance. For an overview and review of all available and
upcoming cards, including cards funded by the Dash budget system, see
`this article on Dash Force News <https://www.dashforcenews.com/debit-
card-proposal- reviews/>`_.

The rapidly evolving approach to regulation of cryptocurrencies such as
Dash and instant exchange solutions such as ShapeShift means that
availability of debit cards cannot be guaranteed in any or all
jurisdictions. Check with the following providers for updates on the
availability of Dash debit cards. 

Disclaimer: This list is provided for informational purposes only. Dash
Core is not liable for any funds transmitted in error to these
providers, or for the accuracy of information on this page.

Shakepay
  .. image:: img/shakepay.png
     :width: 200px
     :align: right
     :target: https://shakepay.co

  https://shakepay.co

  Shakepay is a virtual (Android & iOS) and plastic card backed by VISA
  and usable in Canada. The card can be loaded with Bitcoin, Dash and
  Ethereum, and balances tracked in USD, CAD and EUR. See `here
  <https://www.dashforcenews.com /shakepay-card-review>`_ for a review
  by Dash Force News.

Wirex
  .. image:: img/wirex.png
     :width: 200px
     :align: right
     :target: https://wirexapp.com

  https://wirexapp.com

  Wirex offers a cryptocurrency wallet, money transfer and
  cryptocurrency sales, with a physical card potentially available again
  soon. On October 2, 2017 Wirex `announced <https://wirexapp.com/dash-
  wallet-integration>`_ a partnership with Dash and integration of Dash
  funding on Wirex cards.

SpectroCoin
  .. image:: img/spectrocoin.png
     :width: 200px
     :align: right
     :target: https://spectrocoin.com

  https://spectrocoin.com

  Spectrocoin offers an exchange, wallet and POS service, with a
  physical card potentially available again soon. Dash, Bitcoin and
  Ethereum are supported, as well as over 20 major fiat currencies.

Bitwala
  .. image:: img/bitwala.png
     :width: 200px
     :align: right
     :target: https://www.bitwala.com

  https://www.bitwala.com

  Bitwala is currently preparing legal documentation to re-launch it's
  card service in Europe, and has supported Dash in the past.

TenX
  .. image:: img/tenx.png
     :width: 100px
     :align: right
     :target: https://www.tenx.tech

  https://www.tenx.tech

  Dash has entered beta support on TenX.

Tax
===

Taxation law is different depending on where you qualify as a resident
for tax purposes. The following services are available to help you
calculate your tax obligations.

