==================
Dash Documentation
==================

Dash is an open source peer-to-peer cryptocurrency with a strong focus
on the payments industry. Dash offers a form of money that is portable,
inexpensive, divisible and fast. It can be spent securely both online
and in person with only minimal transaction fees. Based on the Bitcoin
project, Dash aims to be the most user-friendly and scalable payments
system in the world. In addition to Bitcoin's feature set, Dash 
currently also offers instant transactions (:ref:`instantsend`), private 
transactions (:ref:`PrivateSend`) and operates a self-governing and 
self-funding model that enables the Dash network to pay individuals 
and businesses for work that adds value to the network. This 
decentralized governance and budgeting system makes it one of the first 
ever successful decentralized autonomous organizations (DAO).

If you are new to cryptocurrencies, the most important change to
understand is that transactions occur directly between two parties
without any central authority to facilitate the transaction. This also
means that you are responsible for your own security - there is no bank
or credit card company to reverse a transaction if your funds are stolen
or lost. In this sense, it is similar to cash or gold, but
cryptocurrency can be spent locally and internationally with equal ease,
if you are confident you are sending funds to the right destination. For
these reasons, the Dash documentation has a strong focus on safety and
understanding the concepts and features that drive the Dash ecosystem.
The videos, links and documentation below can help you get started, or
use the table of contents on the left to find a specific topic of
interest.

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 4
   
   wallets/index.rst