.. _dashcore_installation:

==================
Installation
==================

Installing Dash Core is as simple as going to https://www.dash.org/Â and
downloading the appropriate file for your system, then following the
appropriate installation steps for your system. Detailed guides are
available for Linux, macOS and Windows operating systems below.

It is also possible to :ref:`compile Dash Core from source code 
<compiling-dash>`.

Linux
==================

This guide describes how to download, verify, install and encrypt the
Dash Core wallet for Linux. The guide is written for Ubuntu 16.04 LTS,
but the steps should be similar for other Linux distributions.

Downloading the Dash Core wallet
----------------------------------

Visit https://www.dash.org/get-dash/ to download the latest Dash Core
wallet. In most cases, the website will properly detect which version
you need. Click the blue Dash Core button to download the package
directly.

.. figure:: img/linux/106330106.png
   :height: 250px

   The website properly detects the wallet appropriate for your system

If detection does not work, you will need to manually choose your
operating system and whether you need a 32 or 64 bit version. If you are
unsure whether your version of Linux is 32 or 64 bit, you can check in
Ubuntu under the **System menu > About This Computer**. For details on
how to check this in other versions of Linux, see
`here <https://www.howtogeek.com/198615/how-to-check-if-your-linux-system-is-32-bit-or-64-bit/>`__.

.. figure:: img/linux/106329727.png
   :height: 250px

   Ubuntu System Overview. This is a 64 bit system.

Once you know which version you need, download Dash Core to your
computer from https://www.dash.org/wallets/

.. figure:: img/linux/106329738.png
   :height: 250px

   Manually selecting and downloading Dash Core

Save the file you downloaded to your Downloads folder.

Verifying Dash Core
----------------------

This step is optional, but recommended to verify the integrity of the
file you downloaded. This is done by checking its SHA256 hash against
the hash published by the Dash Core development team. To view the
published hash, click the **Hash file** button on the wallet download
page.

.. figure:: img/linux/106329748.png
   :height: 250px

   Downloading the Dash Core hash file

Once both the Dash Core file and the hash file have downloaded,
double-click the hash file or view it in your browser and find the hash
value for the Dash Core file you downloaded.

.. figure:: img/linux/106329757.png
   :height: 250px

   Viewing the Dash Core hash file

This hash value should correspond with the hash value of the file you
have downloaded to ensure it is authentic and was not corrupted during
transit. To do this, open Terminal, browse to the location where you
saved the file, and run the sha256sum command.

.. figure:: img/linux/106329766.png
   :width: 486px

   Generating an SHA256 hash for the downloaded file

If the hashes match, then you have an authentic copy of Dash Core for
Linux.

Extracting Dash Core
----------------------

Dash Core for Linux is distributed as a compressed archive and not an
installer. This is because this same archive also contains other files
built for running a masternode on a server, for example. In this guide,
we will extract the executable file with a graphical user interface
(GUI) designed for use by end users as a wallet.

Begin by creating a folder for the Dash Core executable file on the
Desktop. Browse to the Desktop (or the location of your choice) and
create the folder.

.. figure:: img/linux/106329782.png
   :height: 250px

   Creating a folder on the Desktop

.. figure:: img/linux/106329798.png
   :height: 250px

   Renaming the folder to Dash

Next, open the archive by double-clicking on it. The Archive Manager
will appear. Browse to the dashcore-0.12.1/bin/ folder and extract the
dash-qt file to the Dash folder you created on the Desktop by drag and
drop.

.. figure:: img/linux/106329807.png
   :height: 250px

   The dash-qt file in Archive Manager

.. figure:: img/linux/106329816.png
   :height: 250px

   The dash-qt file in the Dash folder on the Desktop

To run Dash Core for the first time, open Terminal and browse to the
Dash folder on the Desktop, or where you chose to extract the file. Type
`./dash-qt` to run the file.



.. figure:: img/linux/106329833.png
   :width: 486px
.. figure:: img/linux/106329842.png
   :height: 250px
.. figure:: img/linux/106329854.png
   :height: 250px
.. figure:: img/linux/106329873.png
   :height: 250px
.. figure:: img/linux/106329889.png
   :height: 250px
.. figure:: img/linux/106329907.png
   :height: 250px
.. figure:: img/linux/106329946.png
   :height: 150px
.. figure:: img/linux/106329973.png
   :width: 359px
.. figure:: img/linux/106329989.png
   :height: 250px
